{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\cocoartf2757
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs38 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Correlations are useful for describing simple relationships among data. For example, imagine that you are looking at a dataset of campsites in a mountain park. You want to know whether there is a relationship between the elevation of the campsite (how high up the mountain it is), and the average high temperature in the summer.}

The closer r is to zero, the weaker the linear relationship.
Positive r values indicate a positive correlation, where the values of both variables tend to increase together.
Negative r values indicate a negative correlation, where the values of one variable tend to increase when the values of the other variable decrease.
The p-value gives us evidence that we can meaningfully conclude that the population correlation coefficient is likely different from zero, based on what we observe from the sample.
"Unit-free measure" means that correlations exist on their own scale: in our example, the number given for r is not on the same scale as either elevation or temperature. This is different from other summary statistics. For instance, the mean of the elevation measurements is on the same scale as its variable.


Each point in the plot represents one campsite, which we can place on an x- and y-axis by its elevation and summertime high temperature.
The correlation coefficient (r) also illustrates our scatterplot. It tells us, in numerical terms, how close the points mapped in the scatterplot come to a linear relationship. Stronger relationships, or bigger r values, mean relationships where the points are very close to the line which we’ve fit to the data.
